Added Project Deletion docs (#46703)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/platform/delete-project.mdx

Deleting projects stops new usage from accumulating, but does not remove usage that already occurred during the current billing cycle. For quota-based limits, that usage still counts until the billing period resets.
See our [Fair Use Policy](/docs/guides/platform/billing-faq#fair-use-policy) for further details.

</Admonition>

## Alternative: Pause your project

If you're unsure about deletion, consider pausing your project instead:

<Admonition type="note">

Note: Only Free Projects can be paused at this time. 

</Admonition>

- **Paused projects** stop incurring compute charges
- **Data is preserved** and can be accessed when you resume
- **Quick recovery** — Resume the project at any time without data loss

To pause a project, navigate to [**Settings** > **General** > **Project availability**](/dashboard/project/qiuwhyoiycwkuobqirkr/settings/general) and click **Pause Project**.

## Protective measures to consider

To safeguard against accidental deletion, consider the following:

### 1. Backup your database
If you are on the Pro, Team or Enterprise Plan, you can get daily backups from [your Supabase dashboard](/dashboard/project/_/database/backups/scheduled)

> You can also backup your database by following the [backup and restore guide](/docs/guides/platform/migrating-within-supabase/backup-restore) provided.

Reviewer: Currently the default is physical backups so I don't think we should lead with the possibility to get the daily backups on the scheduled page. 

Maybe lead with the backend and mention legacy logical 
```
You can backup your database by following the [backup and restore guide](/docs/guides/platform/migrating-within-supabase/backup-restore) provided.

If you are on the Pro, Team or Enterprise Plan, with legacy logical backups, you can download a copy from [your Supabase dashboard](/dashboard/project/_/database/backups/scheduled)
```

---
title: Deleting Your Project
subtitle: Understanding the permanent consequences and how to protect yourself
---

Deleting a Supabase project is a **permanent and irreversible action**. Before proceeding, understand the full scope of what will be deleted and take precautions to prevent accidental data loss.

<Admonition type="danger">

> Deleted projects cannot be recovered. All data, backups, and configurations are permanently removed. Ensure you have exported all critical data or saved backups before proceeding to delete your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We cannot recover deleted projects. All data, backups, and configurations are permanently removed. Ensure you have exported all critical data or saved backups before proceeding to delete your project.
```

Switch to active voice, especially here to make it very clear.

</Admonition>

## What gets deleted

> When you delete a project, the following are permanently removed and **cannot be recovered**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you delete a project, the following are permanently removed, and **you cannot recover them**:
```

Same again

- **Database and all data**: Your entire Postgres database, including all tables, schemas, and records
- **Edge Functions**: All deployed Edge Functions and their source code are removed
- **Storage objects**: All files in Storage buckets are permanently deleted
- **Backups**: All automated backups and point-in-time recovery snapshots are deleted
- **Authentication data**: User accounts, sessions, and auth logs are removed
- **Real-time subscriptions**: All active subscriptions and configurations are cleared
- **API keys and credentials**: All project API keys, service role keys, and webhooks are invalidated
- **Custom domains and SSL certificates**: Any custom domains linked to the project are removed

## How to delete a project

You can delete a project through any of these methods:

### Via dashboard

> 1. Navigate to your project's **Settings** > **Danger Zone**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your project's [**Settings** > **General** > **Delete project**](/dashboard/project/_/settings/general#delete-project) section of the Dashboard
```

It seems the naming has changed a little. The #delete-project should work, but it doesn't seem to. It doesn't break anything either, though.

2. Click **Delete Project**
3. Enter your project name exactly as it appears to confirm
4. Review the confirmation dialog and click **Delete**

### Via Supabase CLI

```bash
supabase projects delete <project-ref>
```

For more information, see the [Supabase CLI documentation](/docs/reference/cli/supabase-projects-delete).

### Via management API

```bash
curl -X DELETE https://api.supabase.com/v1/projects/<project-ref> \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <access-token>"
```

> See the [Management API documentation](/docs/reference/api/v1-delete-a-project) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Management API documentation](/docs/reference/api/v1-delete-a-project).
```

Just for consistency.

- **Authentication data**: User accounts, sessions, and auth logs are removed
- **Real-time subscriptions**: All active subscriptions and configurations are cleared
- **API keys and credentials**: All project API keys, service role keys, and webhooks are invalidated
- **Custom domains and SSL certificates**: Any custom domains linked to the project are removed

## How to delete a project

You can delete a project through any of these methods:

### Via dashboard

1. Navigate to your project's [**Settings** > **General** > **Delete project**](/dashboard/project/qiuwhyoiycwkuobqirkr/settings/general#delete-project)
2. Click **Delete Project**
3. Enter your project name exactly as it appears to confirm
4. Review the confirmation dialog and click **Delete**

### Via Supabase CLI

```bash
supabase projects delete <project-ref>
```

For more information, see the [Supabase CLI documentation](/docs/reference/cli/supabase-projects-delete).

### Via management API

```bash
curl -X DELETE https://api.supabase.com/v1/projects/<project-ref> \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <access-token>"
```

For more information, see the [Management API documentation](/docs/reference/api/v1-delete-a-project).

> ## Protective measures to consider

Reviewer: I think this section should be before the `## Need Help` section (I found the `## After Deletion` being after this a bit odd)

Moving it down I believe makes the flow better:
- How to delete
- What happens after deletion
- Alternative to deleting
- Protective measures
- Need extra help

Author: Agreed, thanks Tim.

To safeguard against accidental deletion, consider the following:

### 1. Export critical data

- **Database backups**: Use `pg_dump` to export your Postgres database:

```bash

> pg_dump -U postgres -d db -s -f schema.sql

Reviewer: - `-s` is schema only it seems like
- `-d db` connects to the database named `db` but we typically use `postgres` right?

What's the context of this command as it's not connecting to any host? 

While I do think we should have options for plain `pg_dump`, maybe better to direct to 
https://supabase.com/docs/guides/platform/migrating-within-supabase/backup-restore ?

Alternatively if do want to keep `pg_dump` , we should also have options on how to restore it

Author: Yea, you are right. I need to show steps on how to use `pg_dump` while also directing to the supabase link backup link you shared, just to give the users options.

I will add this today and hopefully we can merge already.
Thanks for all your reviews.

Author: I had a few reads on using `pg_dump` with Supabase and due to some concerns I found, I will go with your suggestion of just pointing the users to the `/migrating-within-supabase` doc for now.
Thanks again @thewheat

- Save authentication provider settings (OAuth, SAML, etc.)
- Document any custom database functions, triggers, or policies
- Record webhook configurations and integrations

### 4. Enable access controls

<Admonition type="caution">

Restrict who can delete projects within your organization to prevent accidental deletion by team members.
See [Access Controls](/docs/guides/platform/access-control)

</Admonition>

- Set up role-based access controls to limit deletion permissions
- Require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for sensitive operations
- Use the Supabase dashboard to configure team member permissions

### 5. Monitor project activity

- Enable audit logging to track who has access to your project
- Review and revoke unnecessary API keys before deletion
- Check for any scheduled jobs or integrations that depend on the project

## After deletion

Once a project is deleted:

- Your project URL will no longer be accessible
- DNS records will be cleaned up (may take up to 24 hours to fully propagate)
- Billing for this project will stop immediately
- You cannot recover or restore the project 

<Admonition type="note">

> Deleted projects do not free up your account's project quota immediately. Contact Supabase support if you need your quota limit adjusted.

Reviewer: I do not believe this is correct.  Historic usage should still validly be counted

https://supabase.com/docs/guides/platform/billing-faq#how-can-i-remove-restrictions-applied-from-the-fair-use-policy 

> Pausing or deleting a project stops new usage from accumulating, but does not remove usage that already occurred during the current billing cycle. For quota-based limits, that usage still counts until the billing period resets.

Reviewer: Perhaps can utilize the same language on that page

> Deleting projects stops new usage from accumulating, but does not remove usage that already occurred during the current billing cycle. For quota-based limits, that usage still counts until the billing period resets.
See our [Fair Use Policy](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/platform/billing-faq#fair-use-policy) for further details.

Author: > ...but does not remove usage that already occurred during the current billing cycle.

This was what I was trying to say in my original text. But I hear you, and thanks for the suggestion, that is more accurate 👍🏼

</Admonition>

## Alternative: Pause your project

If you're unsure about deletion, consider pausing your project instead:

- **Paused projects** stop incurring compute charges
- **Data is preserved** and can be accessed when you resume
- **Quick recovery** — Resume the project at any time without data loss

To pause a project, navigate to [**Settings** > **General** > **Project availability**](/dashboard/project/qiuwhyoiycwkuobqirkr/settings/general) and click **Pause Project**.

<Admonition type="note">

> Note: Only Free Projects can be paused at this time. 

Reviewer: I think this should be below the `Alternative: Pause your project` header so that we give the requirements before sharing the instructions
